hi everybody I knew earlier this year I
was going to buy Kodak z18 camera this
is a really wonderful camera but one
problem it has is that if you walk
around with it while you're videotaping
recording it doesn't have a very good
stabilization mechanism it makes it very
jittery a video so I wanted to get
something like a camera stabilizer there
rather expensive not too easy to make so
I thought first maybe I should just look
at a camera cradle some people have had
said they had very good success making
camera crate or camera caddy you can buy
them for a 40 50 even 67 dollars on eBay
and online and I thought maybe I should
try making one first and I made one
if differ just basically good the
dollars worth of material here in about
15 or 20 minutes it's it's rather crude
I'm almost embarrassed it took me a long
time decide to put it on on YouTube
because I there's so many wonderful
people out there making stuff and this
is so quick and dirty I was kind of
embarrassed I do better work in this but
this is just something I put together in
a few minutes at home and I was able to
determine pretty quickly that the camera
cradle it does help to stabilize your
picture but it doesn't really work that
good it's like if you put a spoonful of
sand in your soup and you have something
that only puts a quarter of a spoon of
sand under soup used to last hand in
your soup this this doesn't really
become a camera stabilizer but it does
help control your camera and it's a very
comfortable device especially with the
smaller cameras to have something to
hold on to it so what I did notice
though is that after I made it it was
such an interesting platform to start
adding things to to try to to do
different things you can do so much with
the platform once you start having
something you can attach things to or
modify and this is wooden plastic for if
your gadget here is the best thing in
the world to to mess around with and
like I said it does take the kodak zi8
let's put the codec on here maybe first
we should go over the parts real quick
it's just one by twos
cut and there's a piece of masonite on
top to make a platform we have a quarter
inch bolt for mounting the cameras if
you start doing different things you can
make a track here so you can put the
bolt in different places or you can
drill holes through the pipe but it's
probably better to make a little track
this is the very first one that's
prototype this is just a quarter inch
excuse me three quarter inch set PVC
with some fittings and it comes apart
easily you can put a screw in here so it
doesn't come out while you're
videotaping and these things up here
we'll get to these in one second let's
put on the the Kodak I said there's a
little bolt here we're gonna use to
mount okay you have your Kodak mounted
and like I said once I started using
this it's it's very handy for for
controlling the camera I'm a pretty
steady
camera operator but by having another
cradle or having a cradle it was it was
a lot easier to to maneuver it and to
hold it but the thing that impressed me
once I started playing around with what
was all the things that you could do
with this for instance I was thinking
what if you're out in the woods
someplace and you don't have your tripod
with you if you put a u-bolt on here and
put a clamp
you can then clamp this to a branch
piece of wood or of your living
apartment you can put it on the
stairwell on some stairs on railings so
you could use this to attach different
things it would be very easy to add also
these are the vices on top you can put
holes in them and in add attachments too
so you can take things and put them on
and off like for instance you can make
this a cold shoe or a device to put on
your your microphone also I was thinking
for mounting on a car they have these
magnets you can get on eBay they're out
of computer hard drives they're
extraordinarily strong they'll actually
pinch your fingers you have to be
careful there fill the holes already
drilled so you can attach
to anything once you did that you could
make this into something you could mount
on your car while you were driving this
is something I saw in the hardware store
it makes a if you don't want to put
these T's on there you just had a
straight piece of pipe you can use this
it has a flat mount so you can put a
hole in there and you can add different
attachments also I was thinking and this
was a something I'm going to do I think
what if you were out in the woods
someplace and you wanted a straight shot
and you didn't want to make a dolly
because it would take all day long well
if you could string up some wire and
make it tight with a a clamp here with a
turnbuckle
once you got your wire tight you could
put your wire on these pulleys and mount
your pulley to the top of your your
camera cradle and then you could have
another line attached to your camera
cradle and so you could pull it along
your line and it would make a dolly very
quickly and efficiently in any rough
terrain and it's something I think I'm
going to experiment with also I was
thinking what if you were wanting to
take a low dolly shot something you
could add wheels or if you're out in the
pool someplace you want to take a shot
or someone swimming you could put this
on piece of styrofoam and pull it along
also you could put a magnifying glass in
front of your camera this has a macro
lens but with the magnifying glass you
could adjust it if you had a little
track here you could move the camera
back and forth till you got the right
focal plane and then with your
magnifying glass you could get extremely
interesting close-ups with that so like
there are so many different things that
I could you can do with this once you
make a little cradle that you couldn't
do before when you're just holding it by
hand like I said they have cradles you
can spend 40 50 60 dollars this cost a
dollar and you can have a load of fun
with this also you you could put the
camera back here and tilt the camera the
cradle till it's 9 degrees you could
make a little camera stand where you
could photograph books or any flat
playing objects or you could do
some sort of animation there are so many
different things like I'm going to do a
few of these probably the one with the
magnifying glass and with the little
like monorail dolly also I was even
thinking of you could hook up your small
binoculars in front of your camera lens
and and try different zoom shots that
way likes it this looks like a really
fun platform for making a lot of
different gadgets to mess around with
with hardly no money at all and it's
something anybody can do and it comes
apart you can take this apart and put it
in your camera bag and it doesn't take
up hardly any space so I'll be making
except the one with the microphone with
the magnifying glass and dual dolly and
and see how it works and putting on
youtube later on I hope you enjoyed this
and it's something handy that that you
can find useful thanks for watching my
videos